# Basic Statistics  and Data in Python
Statistics in Python is not necessarily faster; however, the knowledge adds to capabilities in Python if you are evaluating code for data science or running a quick test in-line with data analysis or modeling.

For this we will use the Sci-Py package (scipy). This section assumes a basic understanding of Python. Python code is provided for individuals wanting to learn Python by reading through code.

[Video]

### Libraries and Functions
```
from scipy import stats
import pandas as pd
```

### Pandas DataFrame Functions
Python Pandas DataFrames have aggregation functions built in. Access the column and apply the aggregation functions using the following pseudo-code:

`result = dataFrame['columnName'].function()`

#### Common aggregation functions:

```
.count() # Number of records or rows
.nunique # Unique count of records or rows
.mean()  # Average
.std()   # Sample standard deviation
.sem()   # Standard deviation of the mean (Standard error)
.sum()   # Sum
```

#### Other useful functions to consider learning throughout the course:
```
.dtypes  # Column Datatypes
.columns # Columns

.apply   # Apply a function to dataframe
.groupby # Groupby aggregation (similar to SQL)

.dropna  # Drop NA/missing values
.fillna  # Fill NA/missing values
.replace # Replace values
```

For more information on Pandas DataFrame functions, see the documentation library at: Pandas DataFrame Documentation

#### Sci-Py Stats Functions
SciPy Stats has a number of functions, but we will focus on a select few for this week. These functions assume we have imported scipy stats using:
```
from scipy import stats
```

Normal (Z) and t statistics have cumulative and inverse functions for mapping between the statistics and the probability under the distribution. The statistics measure the distance from the mean, and the probabilities describe the cumulative percent area under the curve (distribution).


#### Common Z and t-statistic in Python and Excel:
```
Function         Python                   Excel
---------        -----------------        -----------------
z -> prob        stats.norm.cdf(z)        =norm.s.dist(z)
prob -> z        stats.norm.ppf(p)        =norm.s.inv(p)
t -> prob        stats.t.cdf(t, df)       =t.dist(t, df, 1)
prob -> t        stats.t.ppf(p, df)       =t.inv(t, df)
```

#### Convenience function for confidence intervals:
These functions build a confidence interval for the user without having to calculate the margin of error explicitly to calculate a lower and upper bound.
```
stats.t.interval(confidence_interval, loc=avg, scale=stderr)
stats.norm.interval(confidence_interval, loc=avg, scale=stderr)
```

### Example Questions
1. What is the 99% confidence interval for the average alcohol level in a bottle of wine?
2. What is the 90% confidence interval around the proportion of white wines that are rated very good quality (7 or higher)?
3. Can you conclude, at the 5% significance level, that the averaged fixed acid level for all wines is above 7.2?

### References

#### FAQ

1. Help, I get an error that Python cannot locate the file:
  * Is your Excel in the same directory as the Python code?
  * Is your working directory set to the current directory of both the code and Excel?
     *If you need to programmatically update your current working directory:
        * import os
        * os.chdir


#### Other resources
1. [Pandas documentation](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/frame.html)
2. [SciPy Stats documentation](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/stats.html)
  
