# Decision and Classification Trees in Python
Decision trees allow for binary and multi-class classification that typically provides a probability between 0 and 1 of an observation belonging to a class. 

Decision trees can work with categorical and numerical data, which gives them expanded flexibility over logistic regression. Additionally, fewer statistical assumptions are required.

The risks of decision trees are that they can easily over-fit the data without careful considerations. If you are going to use decision trees, you should strongly consider validation/cross-validation sets, or consider advanced machine learning topics such as random forest.

Decision trees have many more hyperparameters that allow for customization vs. logistic regression.

## Video
[Video]


###Decision Trees in Python and Sci-Kit Learn
Libraries
```
import pandas as pd 
from sklearn implort tree
from sklearn.metrics import confusion_matrix, roc_curve, auc 
from sklearn.tree import export_graphviz
from graphviz import Source
```

Fitting Decision Trees
```
model = tree.DecisionTreeClassifier(random_state = 42, criterion="gini", splitter="best", max_depth=2)
model = model.fit(X, y)
```

There are many parameters for decision trees, a common one to adjust is the max_depth parameter.
[TODO] More detail on the many choices for decision trees, and some of their limitations

Making Predictions
```
yp = model.predict(X)
yprob = model.predict_proba(X)
```

Measuring Performance with a confusion matrix
```
tn, fp, fn, tp = confusion_matrix(y, yp).ravel()

fpr, tpr, thresholds = roc_curve(y, yprob[:,1])

roc_auc= auc(fpr, tpr)
```

Visualizing your tree
```
export_graphviz(model, out_file="outfile.dot", feature_names=X.columns)
Source.from_file("outfile.dot")
```

#### Interpreting your Decision Tree Model
Confusion matrix values

[TODO]

ROC Curves

[TODO]

### Full Code Examples
1. UNC Demo
   a. Build a variety of decision trees on the UNC dataset.


### References
#### FAQ
[Placeholder]

#### Support Links
1. [SKLearn documentation: Decision Trees](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/tree.html)
2. [Géron - Chapter 06 - Decision Trees](https://github.com/ageron/handson-ml2/blob/master/06_decision_trees.ipynb)
